---
icon: building
---

# Template Model Selection

## Description

The template models are the backbone of the Scenario Explorer. This page is meant to allow you to select the template model that best suits your analysis. There are over 60 template models to choose from!

In addition to the selection process through the dropdown selectors, there is also a graph which visualizes key environmental impact data. Furthermore, there is a table that displays all relevant environmental impact information.&#x20;

## Selection

There are several dropdowns which allow for the selection of a template model for analysis. These dropdowns are separated into three sections: building information, structure, and enclosure.

### Building Information

In this section, you can choose from two general characteristics of the building: location and building use type.&#x20;

For location, there is currently one functioning location: Los Angeles. Location currently only impacts the energy use of the building. It does not have an impact on structural design or R-values for the enclosure. These will be updated in future iterations of the tool.&#x20;

Currently, commercial office buildings are the main focus of the tool. Choosing "Office" will allow you to select from one of the 60 template models available. Choosing "Single Family Home" will default to one template model based on a template model supplied by BEAM.

### Structure

In this section, you can choose one characteristic of the template model: the structural material.&#x20;

At present, there are three designs for the commercial template models:

* A steel building composed of composite deck held by steel framing, supported by steel columns and a concrete shear wall
* A concrete building composed of a concrete flat slab, supported by concrete columns and a concrete shear wall
* A mass timber building composed of CLT held by glulam beams, supported by glulam columns and a concrete shear wall

These options can be chosen by their structural material. The assumptions for these designs can be found in the [Design](template-model-selection.md#design) section.

### Enclosure

In this section you can choose four characteristics of the template model: cladding type, glazing type, roofing type, and window-to-wall ratio.&#x20;

For cladding and glazing, the types shown allow you to select the type of opaque and translucent enclosure options to create the vertical facade components. The roofing type allows you to select the horizontal enclosure.&#x20;

Finally, the window-to-wall ratio affects the masses of opaque and translucent enclosure values. A 33% window-to-wall ratio, for example, will assume 33% of the vertical facade is translucent and 67% is opaque. This ratio will be used to calculate the mass of the assembly.&#x20;

## Design

The template models are a combination of designed models made for the tool and models that come from other outside resources like BEAM and Kaleidoscope by Payette. &#x20;

### Structural Assumptions

The models are created based on best practice structural engineering assessments at a schematic level. More TBD.

### Enclosure Assumptions

The models are created based on masses generated by Kaleidoscope by Payette.
